Describe the Grids format exporting restrictions (#558)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: api-reference/30 Data Layer/PivotGridDataSource/1 Configuration/fields/format.md

---

The following predefined **format**.[types](/Documentation/ApiReference/Common/Object_Structures/format/#type) are automatically converted to XLSX format string when exporting to Excel:

- Numeric Formats (except for *"largeNumber"* that is exported as the <a href="https://support.office.com/en-us/article/available-number-formats-in-excel-0afe8f52-97db-41f1-b972-4b46e9f1e8d2" target="_blank">General</a> format)
- Currency Formats
- Date-Time Formats (The *"quarter"* and *"quarterAndYear"* types will be exported as *"shortDate"*. The *"minute"* and *"millisecond"* types will be exported as *"longTime"*)

> Other [formats](/Documentation/ApiReference/Common/Object_Structures/format/) - *"function"* and [custom format string](/Documentation/Guide/Common/Value_Formatting/#Format_Widget_Values/Custom_Format_String) are not converted  to the Excel format. To export these formats, use the [customizeText](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/PivotGridDataSource/Configuration/fields/#customizeText) callback to export a formatted string instead of a raw cell value.

Reviewer: Two spaces: "converted  to"

---

When being [exported to Excel](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxPivotGrid/Configuration/export/), the specified format is converted to an Excel format as follows:

- **Numeric**   

> Converted to the *"Number"* format, except for *"largeNumber"*, which is exported without formatting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Converted to the Number format, except for *"largeNumber"*, which is exported without formatting.

```

- **Currency**  

> Converted the *"Currency"* format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Converted to the Currency format.

```

- **Date-Time**  

> Converted to the *"Date"* or *"Time"* formats depending on the cell value, except for the *"quarter"* and *"quarterAndYear"* types that are exported as *"short date"* and the *"minute"* and *"millisecond"* formats that are exported as *"long time"*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Converted to the Date or Time format, depending on the cell value.        
Exceptions: *"quarter"* and *"quarterAndYear"* are exported as Short Date; *"minute"* and *"millisecond"* are exported as Long Time.

```

- **Function**  

> Cannot be converted, the cell value is exported without formatting. Return the function from the [customizeText](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/PivotGridDataSource/Configuration/fields/#customizeText) callback to apply formatting to the **DataGrid** and the exported Excel document.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cannot be converted automatically. Assign this function to the [customizeText](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/PivotGridDataSource/Configuration/fields/#customizeText) option instead of the **format** option.  

```

---

> When being [exported to Excel](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxPivotGrid/Configuration/export/), the specified format is converted to an Excel format as follows:

Reviewer 3: "When being [exported to Excel]" When what is being exported?

Author: Here we export formatting

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a format is [exported to Excel](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxPivotGrid/Configuration/export/), it is converted to an Excel format as follows:
```

- **Numeric**   

> Converted to the Number format, except for *"largeNumber"*, which is exported without formatting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Converted to Number format, except for *"largeNumber"*, which is exported without formatting.
```

---

> Several restrictions apply to exporting formats. Not all of them have the matching Excel formats:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When being [exported to Excel](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxPivotGrid/Configuration/export/), the specified format is converted to an Excel format as follows:
```

- **Numeric**   

> Exported as the *"Number"* format, except for *"largeNumber"* that is exported as the <a href="https://support.office.com/en-us/article/available-number-formats-in-excel-0afe8f52-97db-41f1-b972-4b46e9f1e8d2" target="_blank">General</a> format

Reviewer 2: Make similar changes to the Currency and Date-Time list entries.

```suggestion
Converted to the *"Number"* format, except for *"largeNumber"*, which is exported without formatting.
```

- **Currency**  
Exported as the *"Currency"* format
- **Date-Time**  
Exported as the *"Date"* or *"Time"* formats depending on the cell value, except for  the *"quarter"* and *"quarterAndYear"* types that are exported as *"shortDate"* and the *"minute"* and *"millisecond"* formats that are exported as *"longTime"*
- **Function**  
Cannot be converted, the cell value is exported without formatting 
- [Custom format string](/Documentation/Guide/Common/Value_Formatting/#Format_Widget_Values/Custom_Format_String)   
Cannot be converted, the cell value is exported without formatting 

> To export unsupported formats, use the *"valueText"* parameter of the [customizeText](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/PivotGridDataSource/Configuration/fields/#customizeText) callback to export a formatted string as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To convert unsupported formats, return the formatted string from the [customizeText](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/PivotGridDataSource/Configuration/fields/#customizeText) callback as follows:
```

---
##### jQuery

    <!-- tab: index.js -->
    $(function() {
        var pivotGridDataSource = new DevExpress.data.PivotGridDataSource({
            // ...
            fields: [{
                // ...

>                 customizeText: function(e){

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                customizeText: (e) => {
```

                    return e.valueText;
                },
                dataType: "number",
                format: (value) => {
                    return value + "$";
                }
            }, {
                // ...
            }]
        });

        $("#pivotGrid").dxPivotGrid({
            // ...
            export: {
                enabled: true
            },
            dataSource: pivotGridDataSource
        });
    });

##### Angular

    <!-- tab: app.component.html -->
    <dx-pivot-grid ... 
        [dataSource]="pivotGridDataSource">
        <dxo-export [enabled]="true"></dxo-export>
    </dx-pivot-grid>

    <!-- tab: app.component.ts -->

>     import { Component } from '@angular/core';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    import PivotGridDataSource from 'devextreme/ui/pivot_grid/data_source';
```

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        templateUrl: './app.component.html',
        styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
    })
    export class AppComponent {
        pivotGridDataSource: PivotGridDataSource;
        constructor() {

>             this.pivotGridDataSource = new PivotGridDataSource {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            this.pivotGridDataSource = new PivotGridDataSource({
```

                fields: [{
                    // ...

>                     customizeText: function(e){

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    customizeText: (e) => {
```

                        return e.valueText;
                    },
                    dataType: "number",
                    format: (value) => {
                        return value + "$";
                    }
                }, {
                    // ...
                }] 

>             }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            });
```

        }

    <!-- tab: app.module.ts -->
    import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
    import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
    import { AppComponent } from './app.component';

>     import DxPivotGridModule from 'devextreme-angular';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    import { DxPivotGridModule } from 'devextreme-angular';
```

>     import PivotGridDataSource from 'devextreme/ui/pivot_grid/data_source';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    @NgModule({
        declarations: [
            AppComponent
        ],
        imports: [
            BrowserModule,
            DxPivotGridModule
        ],
        providers: [],
        bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule { }

##### Vue

    <!-- tab: App.vue -->
    <template>
        <DxPivotGrid ...
            :data-source="PivotGridDataSource">
            <DxExport
                :enabled="true"
            />
        </DxPivotGrid>
    </template>

    <script>
    import 'devextreme/dist/css/dx.common.css';
    import 'devextreme/dist/css/dx.light.css';

    import DxPivotGrid, {
        DxExport
    } from 'devextreme-vue/{widget-name}';
    import PivotGridDataSource from 'devextreme/ui/pivot_grid/data_source';

    const pivotGridDataSource = new PivotGridDataSource({
        // ...
        fields: [{
            // ...

>             customizeText: function(e){

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            customizeText: (e) => {
```

                return e.valueText;
            },
            dataType: "number",
            format: (value) => {
                return value + "$";
            }
        }, {
            // ...
        }]
    });

    export default {
        components: {
            DxPivotGrid,
            DxExport
        },
        data() {
            return {
                pivotGridDataSource
            }
        }
    }
    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.js -->
    import React from 'react';

    import 'devextreme/dist/css/dx.common.css';
    import 'devextreme/dist/css/dx.light.css';

    import PivotGrid, {
        Export
    } from 'devextreme-react/pivot-grid';
    import PivotGridDataSource from 'devextreme/ui/pivot_grid/data_source';

>     const dataSource = new PivotGridDataSource({

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    const pivotGridDataSource = new PivotGridDataSource({
```

        fields: [{
            // ...

>             customizeText: function(e){

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            customizeText: (e) => {
```
